---
title: "Sintered Aluminum Longboard Truck Made with Generative Design"
excerpt: 
header:
  image: 
  teaser: 
gallery:
   
---

# Design
<iframe src="https://vanderbilt643.autodesk360.com/shares/public/SH286ddQT78850c0d8a4daca54665fddb3c7?mode=embed" width="1024" height="768" allowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true"  frameborder="0"></iframe>

# Perserve and Obstacle Geometry

The hanger pivot, central bushing mounting faces, axle ends, and motor mounting plate were designed based off of the Paris manufacturer CAD and physical measurements and used as preserve geometry. The motor mounting plate used 6mm long center-to-center slots so the belt tension can be adjusted. The motor is centered 15mm above the axle to give maximum clearance while still allowing the board to tilt as much as 20 degrees.

The obstacle geometry had to account not only for the static position of the motor, belt, pulleys, wheels, board deck, baseplate, bushings and kingpin, but also allow the truck to pivot so the skateboard can turn, and provide installation tool clearance. The wheel and pulley positions are static and were modeled based off of physical measurements. These were to prevent material around the axle that would block installation or rotation. A fastener obstacle was also added through the wheel and axle to prevent material from filling the axle cutout and ensure socket clearance during installation. For the motor obstacle, the motor body was modeled, the motor mounting screw slots were filled, then an additional slot was added on top for bolt head and installation tool clearance. To make the baseplate obstacle, first the profile was sketch based off of the manufacturer CAD. This profile was extruded and served as the static position of the baseplate. To ensure clearance for the baseplate as it rotated, I did a solid sweep of the extruded baseplate about the hanger pivot 15 degrees in each direction. A cylinder was also extruded to and through the center bushing mount to create clearance for the bushings on each side and the kingpin through the center. 

# Structural Loads and Constraints

To simulate the variety of conditions that may be experienced I used 8 different load cases. The structural constraints were the same for all load cases. The cylindrical face of the hanger pivot was given a pin constraint with motion constrained only radially. The upper face of the bushing mount was given a sliding constraint so that it can only support loads normal to the surface. A sliding constraint was chosen rather than a fixed constraint so as to not remove too much loading from the hanger pivot. A few loads were also present across all load cases. The first is the gravity load from the mass of the motor, represented as a point mass at the center of mass for simulation purposes, and the moment on the motor mounting plate due to the belt tension. This moment was estimated at 1.95N given the 15mm distance from the face to the center of the belt and an approximate belt tension of 30lbs. Load cases 1 & 4. 2 & 5, and 3 & 6 differ only by the direction of the torque applied by the motor. Load cases 7 & 8 differ only by the direction of the impact/decceleration.

## Load Case 1/4

This load case was used to simulate the stress of a 100kg rider's mass distributed evenly between the two wheels. A bearing load of 490N was placed on the inside face of each axle end directed upwards in the +y-direction. 

## Load Case 2/5

This load case was used to simulate the stress of a 100kg rider's mass supported by only the right wheel. A bearing load of 980N was placed on the interior face of the right axle end only, again directed upwards. This load case is to simulate a hard right turn.

## Load Case 3/6

This load case was used to simulate the stress of a 100kg rider's mass supported by only the left wheel. A bearing load of 980N was placed on the interior face of the left axle end only, again directed upwards. This load case is to simulate a hard right turn.

## Load Case 7/8

This load case was usde to simulate the stress of a 10 kg skateboard coming to an abrupt stop from 20mph in just 0.2s. This load case is to simulate a hard crash into a curb or other obstacle. Such rapid decceleration (45 m/s^2 or over 4.5g's) would throw the rider off the board so only the skateboards mass and forces are relevant. A bearing load of 450N was placed on the interior face of each axle end, directed either forward in the +x-direction or backward in the -x-direction. A global acceleration load at 45 m/s^2 was applied in the direction of the force, primarily to simulate the moment and forces generated by the dense, heavy motor.


# Thoughts on Generative Design

I believe generative design is a useful and interesting technology, however it is usually not worth the time and cost over traditional topology optimization or even manual design optimization. The organic shapes and curves of generative design, while mechanically efficient and nice to look at, limit manufacturing to expensive metal and polymer powder processes. While traditional skateboard trucks can be easily, quickly and cheaply cast from steel, the generative design would require many hours of sintering in an expensive machine, with expensive material, and then still requires additional post-processing not necessary when simply casting in a mold. 

